CMake usage updates to INSTALL-CMAKE.md (#16329)
curl/curl: docs/INSTALL-CMAKE.md

A CMake configuration of curl is similar to the autotools build of curl.
It consists of the following steps after you have unpacked the source.

> We recommend building with CMake on Windows, so for instructions on migrating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend building with CMake on Windows. For instructions on migrating
```

       $ cmake -B ../curl-build

For the full list of CMake build configuration variables see

> [the corresponding section](#cmake-build-options) that provides the full table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[the corresponding section](#cmake-build-options).
```

Author: Oh, the feedback suggestion feature is quite nifty. I'm going to tell all my colleagues about it :)

    $ cmake .

> Note, however, that it is recommended to build apart from the source tree, to

Reviewer: I think "apart" sounds a bit odd.

```suggestion
It is recommended to build curl outside of the source tree, to
```

Author: Yes, I agree. I think I chose this wording because earlier in the section, an out-of -source build is referred to as building "apart from the source tree", so I decided to keep this same language.

I definitely think your suggestion has better wording.

Author: Actually, I will move this content upwards to the bullets where the in-source and separate build directory methods of running the CMake configure are being showcased. It's more natural to put this info there.

    $ cmake --install ../curl-build

Do *not* use `--prefix` to change the installation prefix as the output
produced by the `curl-config` script is determined at CMake configure time. If

> you want to set a custom install prefix for CURL, use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you want to set a custom install prefix for curl, use the
```

[`CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX.html)

> when configuring the CMake build.

Reviewer 2: Unless curl behaves differently than most other projects out there, I'd rather omit general, non-curl specific, advice about `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` and `--prefix`, or at least make it less strong, without emphasis.

If curl needs special handling compared to other CMake builds, we should probably aim to fix the issue rather than document it.

Author: We can drop the emphasis. However, the `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` and `curl-config` relationship is definitely specific to the curl project. I thought I made a note about this in #15854, but I clearly did not, and I only remembered this relationship while working on the documentation changes.

I'm not sure about other people, but when I do local build-from-source stuff on Windows I generally prefer to install into `%HOME%/abc-major.minor.patch` or something similar using `--prefix` during the `cmake --install` step. However, `curl-config --prefix` will instead report the value of `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` because it has already been configured as such. I suppose that supporting the use of `--prefix` will require an [`install(SCRIPT ...)`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/install.html#script) rule to reconfigure `curl-config` on-the-fly with an updated install prefix.

Author: I suppose that in the wild there may not be much support for `--prefix` (I think it was added in 3.15) because it is more of a recent option. Can't say how many others (besides me) like to use this, but I did some messing around to see if `curl-config` could be reconfigured before installation and that was already some work (and I haven't gotten it working). So considering there's also the `.pc` file to worry about, supporting `--prefix` is probably not worth the effort.

But if `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` is not going to work correctly we definitely should document that. Installing into a non-default root is pretty common, especially on Windows (to avoid `Program Files`, etc.) :(

Reviewer 2: `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` should be fine with curl and most other project too. LibreSSL is an outlier and not a concern regarding curl docs.

Since this recommendation is true for most projects, I still think this is something we can leave out from curl docs, though I don't feel strongly about it. If it helps using CMake with curl, we can have it here.

Author: Yes, `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX` works as expected with curl. But I think I will leave the `cmake --install --prefix` note in there since it is not 100% expected behavior. I'll also go and look over my changes in case of weird wording.

[config mode](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/find_package.html#config-mode-search-procedure).
This is supported by the `CURLConfig.cmake` CMake config script which is
available if the given CURL was built and installed using CMake.

### Detecting CURL features/protocols

Since version 8.12.0, `CURLConfig.cmake` publishes the supported CURL features
and protocols (see [release notes](https://curl.se/ch/8.12.0.html)). These can
be specified using the `find_package` keywords `COMPONENTS` and
`OPTIONAL_COMPONENTS`, with protocols in all caps, e.g. `HTTPS`, `LDAP`, while
features should be in their original sentence case, e.g. `AsynchDNS`,
`UnixSockets`. If any of the `COMPONENTS` are missing, then CURL is considered
as *not* found.

Here is an example of using `COMPONENTS` and `OPTIONAL_COMPONENTS` in
`find_package` with CURL:

```cmake
# CURL_FOUND is FALSE if no HTTPS but brotli and zstd can be missing
find_package(CURL 8.12.0 COMPONENTS HTTPS OPTIONAL_COMPONENTS brotli zstd)
```

One can also check the defined `CURL_SUPPORTS_<feature-or-protocol>` variables
if a particular feature/protocol is supported. For example:

```cmake
# check HTTPS
if(CURL_SUPPORTS_HTTPS)

>     message(STATUS "CURL supports HTTPS")
> else()
>     message(STATUS "CURL does NOT support HTTPS")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  message(STATUS "CURL supports HTTPS")
else()
  message(STATUS "CURL does NOT support HTTPS")
```
nit to stay synced with indentation we use elsewhere.

Author: Oh, will make that change. Wasn't careful with the tabbing.

    $ cd ../curl-build
    $ make install

# CMake usage

> Just as CURL can be built and installed using CMake, it can also be used from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just as curl can be built and installed using CMake, it can also be used from
```

and protocols (see [release notes](https://curl.se/ch/8.12.0.html)). These can
be specified using the `find_package` keywords `COMPONENTS` and
`OPTIONAL_COMPONENTS`, with protocols in all caps, e.g. `HTTPS`, `LDAP`, while
features should be in their original sentence case, e.g. `AsynchDNS`,
`UnixSockets`. If any of the `COMPONENTS` are missing, then CURL is considered
as *not* found.

Here is an example of using `COMPONENTS` and `OPTIONAL_COMPONENTS` in
`find_package` with CURL:

```cmake
# CURL_FOUND is FALSE if no HTTPS but brotli and zstd can be missing
find_package(CURL 8.12.0 COMPONENTS HTTPS OPTIONAL_COMPONENTS brotli zstd)
```

One can also check the defined `CURL_SUPPORTS_<feature-or-protocol>` variables
if a particular feature/protocol is supported. For example:

```cmake
# check HTTPS
if(CURL_SUPPORTS_HTTPS)
    message(STATUS "CURL supports HTTPS")
else()
    message(STATUS "CURL does NOT support HTTPS")
endif()
```

### Linking against libcurl

To link a CMake target against libcurl one can use
[`taget_ilnk_libraries`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/target_link_libraries.html)
as usual:

```cmake

> # note: may use PUBLIC or INTERFACE instead of PRIVATE depending on how the

Reviewer: This sentence starts odd (and you can drop the "note:"). What may use PUBLIC or INTERFACE?

Author: In CMake, these are alternate link interface [scope specifications](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-buildsystem.7.html#target-command-scope). I think they can briefly summarized as:

* `PRIVATE`: build-time link dependencies
* `INTERFACE`: usage (by downstream users) link dependencies
* `PUBLIC`: build-time and usage link dependencies

For example, `PRIVATE` could be used if one's library uses a header-only or static library for internal implementation use (no leaked through headers or requiring a shared library at runtime). `PUBLIC` would be used for a shared library that is linked against but also must be loadable by `ld.so` at runtime.

I think I will remove the note and use `PUBLIC` here as it is usually recommended to use shared libcurl.

# Migrating from Visual Studio IDE Project Files

> We now recommend using CMake to build CURL with MSVC.

Reviewer: I don't think this is an improvement. Drop "now",  and don't spell curl in uppercase.

Author: Oh understood; the convention is lowercase "curl". Thanks!

`Win32`                           | `-A Win32`
`DLL`                             | `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON`, `BUILD_STATIC_LIBS=OFF`, (default)
`LIB`                             | `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF`, `BUILD_STATIC_LIBS=ON`

> `Debug`                           | `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` (NMake Makefiles only)
> `Release`                         | `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` (NMake Makefiles only)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Debug`                           | `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` (nmake Makefiles only)
`Release`                         | `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` (nmake Makefiles only)
```

Author: I would like to keep the casing here via the same reasoning provided in [my comment below](https://github.com/curl/curl/pull/16329/files#r1957229912).

Author: Actually, I wonder why I didn't follow the Visual Studio example. E.g. I could say here "(with `-G "NMake Makefiles"` only)" and then I can drop the change made to `spellcheck.words` for "NMake". This will done next commit.

I do think at the very least there should be some direction for why `--config` is being used with `cmake --build`, but agree that we can keep the doc more focused by just including a link to CMake documentation.

translate to:

    > cmake . -G "Visual Studio 12 2013" -A x64 -DCURL_USE_SCHANNEL=ON -DUSE_WIN32_IDN=ON -DCURL_USE_LIBPSL=OFF
    > cmake --build . --config Debug -j

> Note that we did *not* specify `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` like we might do for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This does *not* specify `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` like we might do for
```

Author: Hm, I would prefer just starting the sentence off with "We do *not* specify ... here ..." as "This" starts off the next sentence. But I will remove the "Note that..." from the sentence here.

> the `"NMake Makefiles"` generator. This is because the Visual Studio generators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `"nmake Makefiles"` generator. This is because the Visual Studio generators
```

Author: I would like to keep the casing here as-is because this is how it is written in the [CMake documentation](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/generator/NMake%20Makefiles.html#generator:NMake%20Makefiles).

Note that this should not be related to the change in `spellcheck.words` [discussed above](https://github.com/curl/curl/pull/16329/files#r1955753874) because the backticks indicate a literal markup block and it seems like the spellcheck script knows to skip over those.

`DEBUG`                           | `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug`
`GEN_PDB`                         | `CMAKE_EXE_LINKER_FLAGS=/Fd<path>`, `CMAKE_SHARED_LINKER_FLAGS=/Fd<path>`
`LIB_NAME_DLL`, `LIB_NAME_STATIC` | `IMPORT_LIB_SUFFIX`, `LIBCURL_OUTPUT_NAME`, `STATIC_LIB_SUFFIX`

> `VC`: `N`                         | `-G "Visual Studio N 20XX"` (see the CMake [Visual Studio generators](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-generators.7.html#visual-studio-generators))

Author: Hm, true. I agree that it's better to use angle brackets here but I do want to make the connection that the `VC=N` maps to a `-G "Visual Studio N ..."` generator name but I'm not sure if there's a very concise way to do it. Guess I'll leave only the change where the link points to just the Visual Studio generators.

translates to:

    > cmake . -G "Visual Studio 17 2022" -A x64 -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON -DOPENSSL_ROOT_DIR=C:\OpenSSL -DCURL_USE_OPENSSL=ON -DENABLE_UNICODE=ON -DCURL_USE_LIBPSL=OFF
    > cmake --build . --config Debug

> Again, as noted previously, the Visual Studio generators ignore the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Visual Studio generators ignore the
```

Author: Done. Since the "noted previously" is taken out, I mentioned `--config` in the change.
